Display Panel — Usage Guide

The Display Panel (DP) is designed to visualize two-dimensional data quickly and interactively.
Internally, DP operates on xarray objects. 
This keeps data handling clean and consistent: regardless of the original format, the program only needs a converter that loads the dataset into an xarray structure.

In practice, the user does not modify the Display Panel itself — they simply write a converter (for example userdata_to_xarray.py) that translates their data into xarray. 
For organization, custom converters should be placed in the /data_converters directory.

Included Examples:

Three examples are provided to illustrate typical workflows and to serve as templates for new converters.

Example 0 — ARPES NeXus data
Visualizes ARPES.nxs files commonly produced at synchrotron beamlines such as I05 at Diamond Light Source (UK).
It uses the converter (written by Brendan Edwards):
data_converters/i05HR_to_xarray.py 

Example 1 — Text-exported resPES data
Loads resonant photoemission data stored as text files.
The converter:
data_converters/txt2xarray.py
is intentionally simple and serves as a general template for implementing new converters.

Example 2 — FIB microscopy images
Displays images of titanium platforms patterned with a dot grid using a Focused Ion Beam (FIB).
The converter:
data_converters/image2xarray.py
demonstrates how image data can be fed directly into the Display Panel.

To run any example, open a terminal inside the Display Panel directory and execute:
python Example#.py

Interaction:

Navigation:

Resize: The Display Panel window is fully resizable 
Zoom: mouse wheel or two-finger trackpad gesture
Pan: left-click and drag
When Bilateral Link is enabled, side panels follow the main panel during zooming and panning.
If Follow Me is enabled, moving the main panel does not move the cursors.
Move cursor: left-click on cursor and drag

Colormap:

Colormaps can be selected from the dropdown menu (default: Greys).
The sliders adjust the intensity range, and the adjacent checkbox inverts the colormap.

Integration Mode:

DP can integrate data over selectable regions.
Span defines the width of the integration window
Step defines the increment of the integration arrows
(Both must be non-zero to take effect)
The Dim/Pix option switches between dataset coordinates and pixel units.
The checkboxes next to Step allow integration across the full dataset dimension.

Multiple Files:

When several datasets are loaded, they can be switched instantly using either the mouse or the keyboard arrows.

Exporting Data:

Right-clicking on any panel opens the PyQt export menu, allowing figures or data to be saved in multiple formats and offering additional visualization options.

Keyboard Shortcuts:

(Mouse pointer must be over the main panel — tested on a German keyboard layout)

Cursor visibility
1 2 3 4 — toggle individual cursors
Space — toggle all cursors

Cursor style
Q W E R — change guidelines
5 6 7 8 — change guidelines (integration mode)

Orthogonal cuts
A S D F — toggle orthogonal cuts

Cursor fine movement
Arrows — move cursor 1
Shift + Arrows — move cursor 2
Y + Arrows — move cursor 3
X + Arrows — move cursor 4
C + Arrows — move all cursors

Enter — reset all cursors

Integration visualization
G — fade cursor borders
V — vertical cursor mode (reset to exit)
H — horizontal cursor mode (reset to exit)









